ALBERT PINTO
San Francisco Bay Area | 925 640 3076 | albertpinto123@gmail.com | www.linkedin.com/in/albert-pinto
PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY
Seasoned leader with over 15 years of management experience, including 5+ years leveraging AI, data science, and machine
learning. Successfully managed teams ranging from 8 to 50 members and worked with over 2000 fortune 500 customers.
Technical leadership expertise in
     ● Direct the design, management, and execution of enterprise-wide AI technology tools, maintaining high quality
         standards and managing the activities necessary to keep the technology support operations running seamlessly.
     ● Build pioneering AI prototypes from scratch drawing on expertise in the latest emerging technologies in artificial
         intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML).
     ● Drive strategic AI and data science initiatives implementing effective cost controls, making resource allocation
         decisions, and improving the team’s ability to deliver high-quality experiences to customers.
     ● Guide executive teams to establish key success indicators related to the data science, technical support, and quality
         assurance organizations, and report on performance metrics in ticketing and tracking systems.
     ● Manage the operational aspects of engineering and enterprise customer service as well as the assessment,
         identification, and implementation of strategies and technologies to enhance application performance.
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
SUPPORT VECTORS, Fremont CA
An artificial intelligence (AI), big-data, machine-learning, and technical mentoring, product & consulting startup.
Director of AI, Data Science and Machine Learning, Sep 2022 – Present
Spearhead the creation of scalable, enterprise-grade AI applications, cutting-edge platforms, and solutions, leading the charge
in delivering innovative projects for a portfolio of 10 clients from new IT startups to SMB enterprises. Manage a dynamic
12-member engineering team in the U.S. and India, promoting a culture of data-driven innovation and operational excellence.
     ● Achieved over 90% of customer satisfaction on AI projects, expecting to double customers and revenue in the next
         year by tailoring products to meet the needs of clients utilizing various emerging AI technologies.
     ● Scheduled to unveil a minimum viable product (MVP) for an agentic multi-agent framework using AutoGen to simplify
         the creation and maintenance of large amounts of repetitious text.
     ● Enhanced multimodal semantic search with RAG (Retrieval Augmented Generation) capabilities by developing a vector
         database platform and advanced virtual assistants for two Silicon Valley startups and two Fortune 500 companies.
     ● Developed an end-to-end platform and AI assistant from scratch featuring functionality to integrate with other vector
         databases when needed, in the process of implementing this solution for three Silicon Valley startups.
     ● Delivered a unique convolutional neural network (CNN) model-based car identification solution for an IT startup.
WELKIN HEALTH, San Francisco CA
An automated care management platform with $5M annual revenue, 30 customers, and 1M patients.
Head of Data, Technical Support, and Quality Assurance, Sep 2020 - Sep 2022
Led an 8-person team on data science, end to end support, quality assurance, and performance of a global healthcare platform
including a comprehensive portfolio of SaaS products and customizable API solutions hosted on AWS. Compiled and presented
monthly executive summaries on product, support, and customer data, ensuring informed decision-making.
     ● Improved customer satisfaction ratings from 65% to 95% in 8 months by spearheading the recruitment of a new
         support team of 4 engineers in the Ukraine and building a new and scalable technical support system.
     ● Established a successful revenue stream by developing advanced data science solutions, reporting, and metrics
         tailored for enterprise customers, alongside basic standard metrics for other customers using Sisense.
     ● Reduced resolution time by over 30% through training and coaching the QA engineering team to efficiently support
         new products and set up on-call processes while offboarding and migrating customers from old systems.
     ● Ensured early notification to customers regarding outages and provided regular updates on expected resolutions by
         devising an effective testing plan for all features and defects.
4OVER,INC, Greater Los Angeles Area
An online printing business that generated $300M in annual ecommerce revenues.
Senior Manager of Content Strategy & Engineering, Aug 2017 – Aug 2020
Led a team of 8 engineers, reporting to the Chief Technology Officer (CTO).
    ●    Improved website visibility and organic traffic by establishing an effective SEO strategy, incorporating structured
         metadata, AdWords, and insights from customer behavior.
    ●    Streamlined content management processes through assisting with the design and managing the transition from an
         in-house dotCMS to Contentful CMS, ensuring efficient content and asset handling.
    ●    Enhanced user experience with real-time content updates by architecting and managing a library for real-time content
         delivery via Contentful’s APIs, implementing secure roles, entitlements, and authentication mechanisms.
    ●    Boosted performance 15% and reduced costs 33% playing a key role in rolling out a new online platform using ReactJS,
         Node.js, Postgres, and Contentful.
DELL/EMC/Documentum, Pleasanton CA
An enterprise content management platform company serving large and medium fortune 500 companies.
Senior Manager of Engineering, Mar 2008 - Aug 2017
Directed support engineering and operations teams for the Americas generating $600M revenue. Charged with rectifying
defects, handling release requests, offering consultancy services, and addressing feature inquiries. Conducted high-stakes
communications with C-level executives regarding escalations, promoting transparency and accountability at all levels.
    ● Achieved 80% issue resolution within a two-weeks successfully resolving over 3,000 critical customer issues across
         diverse product lines that impacted 2,000+ clients by crafting and implementing decisive action plans.
    ● Established a customer-centric engineering group providing global product support for a customer base of 5,000
         leading and synchronizing the efforts of 100+ engineers on 25 domestic and 20 international engineering teams.
    ● End to End Support for numerous Fortune 500 corporations, including Walmart, USAA, Bank of America, Chevron, Eli
         Lilly, BHP, and Boeing, each contributing more than a million dollars in support and sustenance revenue.
    ● Recognized with Rockstar and Gold Customer Service Awards for a USAA project that involved enhancing product
         support for mixed versions of clients and content repositories; collaborated cross-functionally on a groundbreaking
         innovation that earned multiple patents and was highlighted at the EMC World Conference.
    ● Boosted customer satisfaction and safeguarded the trust and loyalty of valued clients including Intel, Cisco, John
         Wiley, and Pearson by deploying a solution that rectified over 255 critical product defects and feature requests;
         enhanced the platform and enabled client applications to be fully compatible with DITA technology.
    ● Spearheaded a comprehensive overhaul of the content repository platform yielding 25 new patents and setting new
         industry benchmarks; attracted the World Bank as a new client and generated over $25M in license fees.
Additional Roles with Documentum/DELL EMC:
    ● Manager, Web Content Management (WCM) Group
    ● Diversity, Equality & Inclusion,Asian Circle West coast, Vice President
    ● Lead Architect for IT, Development and Applications Team
EDUCATION & CREDENTIALS
B.S & M.S., Computer Science and Engineering | Manipal Institute of Technology, India
Certifications
    ● Multi AI Agent Systems with crewAI, DeepLearning.AI, Sep 2024
    ● AI Agentic Design Patterns with AutoGen, DeepLearning.AI, Aug 2024
    ● Fine tuning large language models, DeepLearning.AI 2024
    ● AI Neural Networks & Generative certification, SupportVectors 2024
    ● Basic and Advanced AI LLM projects, Certification, SupportVectors 2024
    ● Intermediate & Advanced Deep Learning AI certification, SupportVectors, 2022
    ● Data Wrangling & Visualization in Python, SupportVectors, 2023
    ● Six Sigma Yellow Belt
Technical Skills
    ● AI/ML: Generative AI, Large Language Models (LLMs), Natural Language Processing (NLP), Prompt Engineering, Neural
         Nets, AI Search, FAISS, Transformers, Lang Chain technologies, Vector Databases, Retrieval-Augmented Generation
         (RAG), Adaptive RAG (ARAG), voice synthesis (Eleven Labs' technology), GAN, Llama-Index,Autogen, CrewAI, Llava,
         CLIP, BLIP, CNN, RNN and others
    ● Agentic Frameworks: Autogen, CrewAI, Langchain & Llama-Index using tree of thought and Chain of thought.
    ● Deep Learning Frameworks: PyTorch,TensorFlow,
    ● Compute Frameworks: Ray, Spark/Hadoop,
Github repository: https://github.com/albertpinto/
